Hi and welcome to this video that continues our series on Python optimizations in particular we're going
to look at something called String interning.
Now we've seen interning before we saw that in the last video and we saw that Python automatically turns
a certain range of integers but some strings are also in turn by Python but not all.
And that's really important to understand that not all strings are interned.
Now as the Python code is compiled identifiers aren't turned on what are identifiers there are things
like variable names function names class names you know and anything else that you use inside your code.
Your code is essentially a lot of strings.
Right.
And it gets compiled by Python and it will in turn all these identifiers.
Now just as a reminder identifiers must start of an underscore or a letter and then that can only contain
underscores letters and numbers.
So some string literals also get automatically and again not all but some in general any string that
looks like an identifier will get entered.
So the string Hello world.
Well that satisfies the rules for an identifier and that will get entered.
Now even though it may start of a digit so that technically it's not an identifier.
Those strings will still get interned as long as everything else looks like an identifier.
But don't count on it.
Right.
You shouldn't count on things getting interned.
Python is intoning those things for a reason.
So why why is python doing that.
Well it's all about optimization and it's really about speed optimization and possibly memory optimization.
If you think about what's happening as your Python code is running Python needs to look up your you
know your identifies your variable names if you reference a variable and you say print a while it needs
to go and look up a.
So it goes into a dictionary essentially and says hey you know was a find a.
And tell me what it is and then I can find the object and do whatever you know whatever needs to happen
with it.
So there's a lot of you know string comparisons that have to occur.
Right.
A lot of string equality testing.
So let's say let's.
Let's look at two strings.
Let's look at an example.
Let's say we have some long string.
Ok so.
Equals some long string.
And B is the same value some long string.
Well if we use a equals equals B if we use equality comparison to compare the two strings we have to
do this character by character.
However if we know that some long string has been interned then we know that a and b are both going
to point to the same memory address.
In that case to check whether a and b are the same strings we could actually just check whether they
have the same memory address or not.
Right.
And so we can use the identity operator is instead of the equality operator the double equal sign.
So we can compare memory addresses which is just comparing two integer values for equality.
Instead of comparing two long strings.
Character by character.
And this is much faster than doing the character by character comparison.
And in fact we'll take a look at that in the code that will look at a little later in the video.
So not all strings are interned by Python.
You've got to be careful about that but you can't force strings to be interned yourself.
So there is a method the in-turn method in the sense module that you can use to actually force interning
of strings.
Basically making that particular string a singleton.
So the way you would use it as you would first have to import the Madill impulses and then you would
say eight equals and instead of just making it equal to the string you would say systole in turn and
then the string that you want.
Now when you create B you have to also do sister enter.
You can just make it equal to the string itself otherwise there will be a new object in memory.
So in this case a is b will evaluate to true and it's a much faster comparison than doing a equals equals
B.
So when should you do this.
Well in general don't do it right unless you have a specific need.
Now when does that happen.
Well for example let's say you're dealing with a very large corpus of data.
Right.
Large number of strings that maybe has a high repetition maybe say you know you're trying to tokenize
you know a big set of text.
Maybe you're trying to tokenize or Shakespeare's plays for example or whatever it is you know and especially
in things like natural language processing then you have a lot of strings that have a lot of repetition.
So instead of creating a new object for each occurrence of the word though for example if you in turn
everything then every string is actually going to point to the same object in memory and you're going
to reduce your memory overhead.
So there might be a memory optimization here that you may want to use string interning for of course
it also is going to help up your help speed up comparisons.
Now when you're trying to find or compare a string against another string you know if you know that
both strings have been interned you can use the is operator instead of the equals equals operator which
will be much faster.
So if you've got lots of string comparisons going on then it might make sense to do some string and
turn it.
But in general unless you actually find that you need it don't do it don't start you know Inter-railing
strings right off the bat just do your strings normally.
And then if you find that you need to speed things up well you need to reduce your memory footprint
depending on the circumstances you're working with.
Then start doing and looking at string intoning.
So don't optimize things until you need to actually optimize them.
OK.
So let's take a look at some code and see how all this works in practice.
So let's take a look at string interning in practice.
So we'll take two variables A and B.
And this will get intoned because hello looks like an identifier to a short string for standards but
that doesn't really matter as long as it looks like an identifier.
It will get intoned.
So if we do that we can see what the ID of a B and B is.
OK.
And we can see there the same memory address.
Now on the other hand if we take something like hello world with a space in it k and then we do the
same thing with B.
Then you'll notice when we print the ID of a and the idea of beam
that we do not have the same memory address.
And that's because A and B do not look what is those strings.
Hello world.
Don't look like an identifier and they just don't get interned at least not automatically.
So don't count on string and turning to happen.
Now why is that important.
Well because now I can do I can so easily compare a equals equals B.
OK.
Which is true.
Now 86.
B In this case is going to be false.
Right because hello world is not interned.
So the idea of the idea of B is different.
But if we take this example over here let's paste it back in and let's do a equals equals B.
As we can see a equals equals B is true which is as it should be but a is b is also true because those
two strings were interned.
So we have let's say one more example that I want to show you eight equals.
This is a long string.
That's good.
Oh no no space.
That's the thing that could be used as an identifier.
It doesn't even have to be spelled correctly.
OK.
So this is what a is.
Now I'm going to copy that and I'll run that statement and then I'll paste that them and do B as well
K and A is B is going to return true.
So as you can see even for a long string as long as it looks like an identifier it will get in turn
automatically.
Why is that.
Well because you may very well be using an identifier in your code.
Right and maybe it's in a string and later on you're going to try and find let's say a function whose
name is whatever's in that string or a class whose name is in that string.
So Python says Well in case you're going to do that I'm going to turn those two strings.
OK.
So it does that automatically.
Now we don't have to rely on the automatic string interning all the time.
We can actually force string interning so we can do it in this way.
We're going to import Ciss this module.
And in order to do a string interning we're going to have to set a tsis dot in-turn and then whatever
string we want.
So this case I'll do this hello world that we've seen before doesn't get turned automatically.
So let's do that let's do the same thing for B sis dot in-turn.
Hello world.
And then C I'm going to make to just hello world itself.
And you're noticing I'm creating C after I've created a and b.
So let's look at the ID of each of these variables so the idea of a idea of the idea of C K.
Now you'll notice that the idea of a and b are equal and that is as expected because we have intoned
that string Hello world.
In both cases.
Now for the third one we just set sequel to Hello World so Python doesn't try to enter the string even
though technically it could.
Because this is over here but it doesn't even try.
So remember if you're going to intone your strings you need to make sure that you in-turn every instance
of that string.
Ok not just the one to enter on all of them right.
So now what this means is that if I know that a and b interned strings I can certainly test for equality
between the two values.
Hello world hello world using the equality operator equals equals.
But since those strings are interned I also know that they are going to match if and only if their memory
address matches as well.
Right because I've interned those strings.
So instead I can test a is b which will also return true.
Now what is a is b testing.
It is testing the quality of those two values over here right which are two integer values.
Very fast test gets very fast to test the quality of two integers.
This equality operator here equals equals B on the other hand is trying to compare this string and the
string character by character.
And if it runs out of characters and nothing's mismatched then you have an equal string.
So it takes longer to run that kind of comparison in everyday code.
You really don't need to worry about this but if you are doing a lot of string comparisons and by a
lot I mean a lot of string comparisons and your code.
Then you might want to consider string interning.
Let's take a look actually at an example.
We're just going to do a very kind of quick and dirty benchmark on this.
So let's do this let's say.
Def compare using equals will take some parameter and that's going to be how many times we want to run
this comparison.
K and we are going to first create two strings that are not entered.
So a long string that is not interned and will do that time is 200.
So we've got a long string that is not interned repeated two hundred times.
That's really a long string that is not interned petrol and then B we're going to make exactly the same
thing.
OK but we're going to change it and call it B.
Ok so now that we have that we're going to write a loop we're going to say for pi in range and so we're
going to loop end times basically.
And we're going to say if a equals equals B and we're not going to do anything right it is going to
pass.
So really over what we're going to do here.
Right.
This function is going to create two strings and it's going to run an equality operation between those
two strings and times whatever and happens to be OK.
So that's that one.
Now instead what we're going to do here if we're going to say compare using interning and or again will
pass a parameter n the only difference is that I'm going to just copy all the code over the first two.
Difference is that since stopped in-turn we're going to use K.
So we're going to take the same string that we had before but we are going to interpret
OK and then the other difference is that instead of using equals equals B we can get the same result
by using the identity operator is because we know that the two strings are interned.
Right.
So we're just going to check that memory address.
OK.
So this is obviously you know I mean in general you know it was going to be comparing the same string
you're going to want to be comparing different strings and then see when you get quality on.
But in this case what I'm really interested in is the speed difference between the equality operator
and the identity operator.
So we're going to run this.
Right now we're going to have to run this a number of times and then we're going to time it.
So we're going to import time.
We've seen this before.
And then we're going to set stout equals time dots for our counter which is basically a number of milliseconds
then compare using equals.
And we're going to run this.
Now let me see exactly how many I can around this before and I want a number that's big enough that
we'll see a difference.
We'll see a substantial difference in the performance of each of those.
So as you can see I wish
so 3 6.
OK so 10 million times.
So we're going to run this comparison here.
This equals equals be 10 million times.
Okay.
And once it's finished running We'll look at all the time dubbed perf counters.
And post-cancer has an underscore kind of counter.
And then we will print and minus.
And maybe we'll even print this year saying this is for the equality.
All right so this is going to run basically that equality operator ten million times.
This is only going to run once.
Right.
Not 10 million times just the equality operator.
So it's not like we're timing creating you know these two strings 10 million times and the same thing's
going to happen here.
The majority of the time is going to be taken by these two loops.
So let's run it and let's see what it doesn't like.
Compare using equals compare using equals as have a typos on the
go.
Now we can run it.
Let's go take a little while.
OK.
There we go.
Three point nine three nine seconds OK.
That's how long it took to run.
So now we're going to do the same thing.
So we're going to copy paste but I'm not going to use copy using equals.
We're going to say copy using interning.
OK.
So we're going to run it again 10 million times.
We'll do a pot counter at the beginning of our at the end and then we'll take a look at the number of
seconds that have elapsed and there you go Zero Point 3 8.
So that's why I wanted a big number I wanted to show you kind of a more drastic difference right between
the two.
But still you can see that when you are doing lounge numbers of comparisons of strings you're better
off in turning right and then doing the equality comparison.
Now of course intoning takes a certain amount of time.
Right.
It takes a certain amount of effort to do the turning.
So if you're going to be loading let's say 10 million strings and comparing each string once.
Well I don't know that you're going to gain much speed by doing and turning right.
But if you're loading 10 million strings and you're going to do you know millions and hundreds of millions
of you know are comparisons between those strings then start considering and turning right even if you're
loading you know a thousand strings.
But you know you're going to do you know five 10 15 million comparisons between those strings.
Right.
Then think about string and turning.
But if all you're going to do is do a one time comparison between two strings.
There's no point in turning then.
OK.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.